>> Jason Pamental: Some of
the things that we can focus in on,
now that we've got the broad strokes.
We've dealt with setting
a reasonable maximum width.
We've dealt with line height,
font size, a few of the basics
in the font variation settings.
But optical sizing is one that I
think is worth a little bit of
a history lesson detour
because that's one that
may not be available in
an overwhelming number of typefaces.
But man, when you can get access to it, it
is really kind of amazing what it can do.
So with any good future display of
technology it's good to start by going
backwards about 3 or 400 years.
So this is going back to about 1720.
This is a broad sheet advertising
a typeface from William Caslon.
And as we sort of cut that out and
normalize for
physical size, you can see that
6 point Caslon C has a much
thicker stroke in comparison to
the one above which is 72 point.
So one is many times
larger than the other.
But if you were to kind of blow up
the photographs like we have here,
you can see what kind of
a difference there is.
They would actually cut the metal
differently when they were making
the different sizes of type.
So this was entirely normal.
This was intended by the type
designer to make sure that
those delicate features were there
when it's big enough to support it.
But it's still a nice,
sturdy shape when it's at a smaller size.
Now on the right, you can see
Amstelvar set in a variety of sizes
with a uniform optical sizing set for
the smallest font size.
So the cues there are look at
those top two lines of text, and
look at a fairly even stroke contrast.
So there's not a whole lot of
variation in the thick and thin.
And watch what happens
when I set the optical
sizing to be equivalent to the font size.
>> Jason Pamental: It
almost looks like a different typeface.
So look at that top line,
Frank Sprung and Collectible Soups.
Look how much more contrast there is,
and delicacy in that stroke.
So if you think about newspaper
headlines versus body copy.
You really want that big bold detail
that really draws you in, and
really has that refined look to it.
But when you need to read the text,
you just need to be able to read the text.
You don't wanna worry about
the shapes falling apart,
because the thin gets too thin,
the thick looks muddy.
It just needs to be a little
bit more normalized.
So effectively you're getting totally
different typefaces out of this, but
it's actually in keeping with
the intent of the design.
Now, this is something that was
normal going back hundreds of years.
And then was lost when we went to photo
typesetting in the 60s and 70s and
then digital typesetting thereafter.
They went with a single
shape that they just scaled.
So when you look at that
block of text in the middle,
that's what we've been
looking at all this time.
For 30 or 40 years, we've been looking at
the type not in the way it was intended,
because it had to be scaled for
maximum use, not maximum appropriate use.
There are a few typefaces out
there in the market where
the designer has actually marketed
a display face, a text face,
a caption face where they
are using this optical sizing.
But they're actually outputting
a whole set of files that
are a different set of outlines
in order to factor this in.
Now we get it, in theory, if they design
it that way, all in a single file.
So it's really kinda remarkable.
The amount that we can do with that one
typeface just keeps getting more and
more finetunable, so
that we really can create a much
more unique experience,
even with just one file.